This is a web app containing exploratory graphs for spatialomics data. It has been designed while working with
spatially resolved proteomics and transcriptomic data from the GeoMx DSP.

The main script is app/mk_dash.py but before running it you need to setup an environment,
this can be done using Conda.

* On Windows you will want to have Conda installed
* After installing you should be able to find the anaconda prompt
* Use anaconda prompt to run the specified commands!

Open a terminal in path/to/lc_dash_app and run:
conda env create -n lc_dash -f env/environment.yml

Next, activate your new environment:
conda activate lc_dash

In the future you may wish to list your environments:
conda env list

When you are ready you can run the main app by doing:
python app/mk_dash.py

After making changes to the app to allow for uploading a dataset
I realize that it makes most sense if encoding and transforms are done outside
of the app.

This means that starting from now, it is assumed that all biomarkers are log2 transformed
and that all relevant factors in the dataset have the proper encoding.

The encoding could be done automatically, but then you may not know what was 0 and
what was 1, so it is better to do it manually.

Expected data types of the different analyses:
Parallel plot - categorical data will be transformed to arbitrary numbers
otherwise colors won't work!
LMM - binary or ordinal encoding of the fixed effect, continuous values for biomarkers
Cox - binary, ordinal or continuous - estimates a ratio that is influenced by the order of values
Correlation - continuous (the idea is to check for correlation of various biomarkers)
3D UMAP - distance is measured for the biomarkers (continuous logscale) could be improved
to not be so sensitive about strings for coloring clusters.

To facilitate easier setup, there is now a configuration file, conf.ini that keeps
track of initial settings for the program, these settings are loaded once at startup and changes
will persist for the runtime of the program.

You may want to have sample identifiers in the first column and biomarker readout columns grouped together in your
dataset.